hey this is presto Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions a rectangle
contains three identical circles as
shown in the diagram the top two circles
are tangent to two sides of the
rectangle while the bottom circle is
tangent to just one side if each circle
has a radius of R what is the area of
the rectangle in terms of r this problem
is adapted from one of the hardest GCSE
exam problems you can pause the video
right now if you'd like to give it a try
and when you're ready keep watching the
video to check your answer or to learn
how to solve this problem
[Music]
so to get the area of this rectangle we
want to solve for the length and the
width we can solve for one dimension by
drawing in these radii of the circles we
see that this side of the rectangle will
be the sum of these lengths which is 4r
now let's calculate the length of the
other side we'll draw in the radii of
these circles and notice we're going to
form an equilateral triangle with a side
length of 2r this means each angle is
equal to 60 degrees we now draw an
altitude as follows this divides the
equilateral triangle into two equal
triangles that are 30 60 and 90 this is
a special right triangle the side
opposite 30 degrees is R so the site
opposite 60 degrees will be R times the
square root of 3 you could have also
solved that using the Pythagorean
theorem this means this vertical length
will be R times the square root of 3 to
get the remaining length we draw in
these radii which have a length of R so
the total length of this side will be
the sum of these values which is equal
to R times the quantity 2 plus the
square root of 3 we can then calculate
the area as the product of these two
dimensions and this gives us our answer
of 4 R squared multiplied by the
quantity 2 plus the square root of 3
incredible thanks for watching and for
making mind your decisions one of the
best channels on YouTube thanks for
watching and thanks for your support
[Music]